.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii xsd.1
.\"
.TH XSD 1 "July 2014" "XSD 4.1.0"
.SH NAME
xsd \- W3C XML Schema to C++ Compiler
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.B xsd
.I command
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.I file
.B [
.I file
.B ...]
.in
.B xsd help
.B [
.I command
.B ]
.in
.B xsd version
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.B xsd
generates vocabulary-specific, statically-typed C++ mapping from W3C XML
Schema definitions. Particular mapping to produce is selected by a
.IR command .
Each mapping has a number of mapping-specific
.I options
that should appear, if any, after the
.IR command .
Input files should be W3C XML Schema definitions. The exact set of the
generated files depends on the selected mapping and options.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH COMMANDS
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.IP \fBcxx-tree\fR
Generate the C++/Tree mapping. For each input file in the form
.B name.xsd
the following C++ files are generated:
.B name.hxx
(header file),
.B name.ixx
(inline file, generated only if the
.B --generate-inline
option is specified),
.B name.cxx
(source file), and
.B name-fwd.hxx
(forward declaration file, generated only if the
.B --generate-forward
option is specified).

.IP \fBcxx-parser\fR
Generate the C++/Parser mapping. For each input file in the form
.B name.xsd
the following C++ files are generated:
.B name-pskel.hxx
(parser skeleton header file),
.B name-pskel.ixx
(parser skeleton inline file, generated only if the
.B --generate-inline
option is specified), and
.B name-pskel.cxx
(parser skeleton source file). If the
.B --generate-noop-impl
or
.B --generate-print-impl
option is specified, the following additional sample implementation files
are generated:
.B name-pimpl.hxx
(parser implementation header file) and
.B name-pimpl.cxx
(parser implementation source file). If the
.B --generate-test-driver
option is specified, the additional
.B name-driver.cxx
test driver file is generated.

.IP \fBhelp\fR
Print usage information and exit. Use
.PP
.RS
.RS 3
.B xsd help
.I command
.RE
.PP
for command-specific help.
.RE
.IP \fBversion\fR
Print version and exit.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
Command-specific
.IR options ,
if any, should appear after the corresponding
.IR command .

.\"
.\" Common options.
.\"
.SS common options
.
