\"
\" NAMING CONVENTION
\"

.SH NAMING CONVENTION
The compiler can be instructed to use a particular naming convention in
the generated code. A number of widely-used conventions can be selected
using the
.B --type-naming
and
.B --function-naming
options. A custom naming convention can be achieved using the
.BR --type-regex ,
.BR --accessor-regex ,
.BR --one-accessor-regex ,
.BR --opt-accessor-regex ,
.BR --seq-accessor-regex ,
.BR --modifier-regex ,
.BR --one-modifier-regex ,
.BR --opt-modifier-regex ,
.BR --seq-modifier-regex ,
.BR --parser-regex ,
.BR --serializer-regex ,
.BR --enumerator-regex ,
and
.B --element-type-regex
options.

The
.B --type-naming
option specifies the convention that should be used for naming C++ types.
Possible values for this option are
.B knr
(default),
.BR ucc ,
and
.BR java .
The
.B knr
value (stands for K&R) signifies the standard, lower-case naming convention
with the underscore used as a word delimiter, for example: foo, foo_bar.
The
.B ucc
(stands for upper-camel-case) and
.B java
values a synonyms for the same naming convention where the first letter
of each word in the name is capitalized, for example: Foo, FooBar.

Similarly, the
.B --function-naming
option specifies the convention that should be used for naming C++ functions.
Possible values for this option are
.B knr
(default),
.BR lcc ,
and
.BR java .
The
.B knr
value (stands for K&R) signifies the standard, lower-case naming convention
with the underscore used as a word delimiter, for example: foo(), foo_bar().
The
.B lcc
value (stands for lower-camel-case) signifies a naming convention where the
first letter of each word except the first is capitalized, for example: foo(),
fooBar(). The
.B java
naming convention is similar to the lower-camel-case one except that accessor
functions are prefixed with get, modifier functions are prefixed with set,
parsing functions are prefixed with parse, and serialization functions are
prefixed with serialize, for example: getFoo(), setFooBar(), parseRoot(),
serializeRoot().

Note that the naming conventions specified with the
.B --type-naming
and
.B --function-naming
options perform only limited transformations on the
names that come from the schema in the form of type, attribute, and element
names. In other words, to get consistent results, your schemas should follow
a similar naming convention as the one you would like to have in the generated
code. Alternatively, you can use the
.B --*-regex
options (discussed below) to perform further transformations on the names
that come from the schema.

The
.BR --type-regex ,
.BR --accessor-regex ,
.BR --one-accessor-regex ,
.BR --opt-accessor-regex ,
.BR --seq-accessor-regex ,
.BR --modifier-regex ,
.BR --one-modifier-regex ,
.BR --opt-modifier-regex ,
.BR --seq-modifier-regex ,
.BR --parser-regex ,
.BR --serializer-regex ,
.BR --enumerator-regex ,
and
.B --element-type-regex
options allow you to specify extra regular expressions for each name
category in addition to the predefined set that is added depending on
the
.B --type-naming
and
.B --function-naming
options. Expressions that are provided with the
.B --*-regex
options are evaluated prior to any predefined expressions. This allows
you to selectively override some or all of the predefined transformations.
When debugging your own expressions, it is often useful to see which
expressions match which names. The
.B --name-regex-trace
option allows you to trace the process of applying
regular expressions to names.

The value for the
.B --*-regex
options should be a perl-like regular expression in the form
.BI / pattern / replacement /\fR.
Any character can be used as a delimiter instead of
.BR / .
Escaping of the delimiter character in
.I pattern
or
.I replacement
is not supported. All the regular expressions for each category are pushed
into a category-specific stack with the last specified expression
considered first. The first match that succeeds is used. For the
.B --one-accessor-regex
(accessors with cardinality one),
.B --opt-accessor-regex
(accessors with cardinality optional), and
.B --seq-accessor-regex
(accessors with cardinality sequence) categories the
.B --accessor-regex
expressions are used as a fallback. For the
.BR --one-modifier-regex ,
.BR --opt-modifier-regex ,
and
.B --seq-modifier-regex
categories the
.B --modifier-regex
expressions are used as a fallback. For the
.B --element-type-regex
category the
.B --type-regex
expressions are used as a fallback.

The type name expressions
.RB ( --type-regex )
are evaluated on the name string that has the following format:

[\fInamespace  \fR]\fIname\fR[\fB,\fIname\fR][\fB,\fIname\fR][\fB,\fIname\fR]

The element type name expressions
.RB ( --element-type-regex ),
effective only when the
.B --generate-element-type
option is specified, are evaluated on the name string that has the following
format:

.I namespace  name

In the type name format the
.I namespace
part followed by a space is only present for global type names. For global
types and elements defined in schemas without a target namespace, the
.I namespace
part is empty but the space is still present. In the type name format after
the initial
.I name
component, up to three additional
.I name
components can be present, separated by commas. For example:

.B http://example.com/hello type

.B foo

.B foo,iterator

.B foo,const,iterator

The following set of predefined regular expressions is used to transform
type names when the upper-camel-case naming convention is selected:

.B /(?:[^ ]* )?([^,]+)/\\\\u$1/

.B /(?:[^ ]* )?([^,]+),([^,]+)/\\\\u$1\\\\u$2/

.B /(?:[^ ]* )?([^,]+),([^,]+),([^,]+)/\\\\u$1\\\\u$2\\\\u$3/

.B /(?:[^ ]* )?([^,]+),([^,]+),([^,]+),([^,]+)/\\\\u$1\\\\u$2\\\\u$3\\\\u$4/

The accessor and modifier expressions
.RB ( --*accessor-regex
and
.BR --*modifier-regex )
are evaluated on the name string that has the following format:

\fIname\fR[\fB,\fIname\fR][\fB,\fIname\fR]

After the initial
.I name
component, up to two additional
.I name
components can be present, separated by commas. For example:

.B foo

.B dom,document

.B foo,default,value

The following set of predefined regular expressions is used to transform
accessor names when the
.B java
naming convention is selected:

.B /([^,]+)/get\\\\u$1/

.B /([^,]+),([^,]+)/get\\\\u$1\\\\u$2/

.B /([^,]+),([^,]+),([^,]+)/get\\\\u$1\\\\u$2\\\\u$3/

For the parser, serializer, and enumerator categories, the corresponding
regular expressions are evaluated on local names of elements and on
enumeration values, respectively. For example, the following predefined
regular expression is used to transform parsing function names when the
.B java
naming convention is selected:

.B /(.+)/parse\\\\u$1/

See also the REGEX AND SHELL QUOTING section below.

\"
\" TYPE MAP
\"
.SH TYPE MAP
Type map files are used in C++/Parser to define a mapping between XML
Schema and C++ types. The compiler uses this information to determine
the return types of
.B post_*
functions in parser skeletons corresponding to XML Schema types
as well as argument types for callbacks corresponding to elements
and attributes of these types.

The compiler has a set of predefined mapping rules that map built-in
XML Schema types to suitable C++ types (discussed below) and all
other types to
.BR void .
By providing your own type maps you can override these predefined rules.
The format of the type map file is presented below:

.RS
.B namespace
.I schema-namespace
[
.I cxx-namespace
]
.br
.B {
.br
  (
.B include
.IB file-name ;
)*
.br
  ([
.B type
]
.I schema-type cxx-ret-type
[
.I cxx-arg-type
.RB ] ;
)*
.br
.B }
.br
.RE

Both
.I schema-namespace
and
.I schema-type
are regex patterns while
.IR cxx-namespace ,
.IR cxx-ret-type ,
and
.I cxx-arg-type
are regex pattern substitutions. All names can be optionally enclosed
in \fR" "\fR, for example, to include white-spaces.

.I schema-namespace
determines XML Schema namespace. Optional
.I cxx-namespace
is prefixed to every C++ type name in this namespace declaration.
.I cxx-ret-type
is a C++ type name that is used as a return type for the
.B post_*
functions. Optional
.I cxx-arg-type
is an argument type for callback functions corresponding to elements and
attributes of this type. If
.I cxx-arg-type
is not specified, it defaults to
.I cxx-ret-type
if
.I cxx-ret-type
ends with
.B *
or
.B &
(that is, it is a pointer or a reference) and
.B const
\fIcxx-ret-type\fB&\fR otherwise.
.I file-name
is a file name either in the \fR" "\fR or < > format and is added with the
.B #include
directive to the generated code.

The \fB#\fR character starts a comment that ends with a new line or end of
file. To specify a name that contains \fB#\fR enclose it in \fR" "\fR. For
example:

.RS
namespace http://www.example.com/xmlns/my my
.br
{
.br
  include "my.hxx";
.br

  # Pass apples by value.
  #
  apple apple;
.br

  # Pass oranges as pointers.
  #
  orange orange_t*;
.br
}
.br
.RE

In the example above, for the
.B http://www.example.com/xmlns/my#orange
XML Schema type, the
.B my::orange_t*
C++ type will be used as both return and argument types.

Several namespace declarations can be specified in a single file.
The namespace declaration can also be completely omitted to map
types in a schema without a namespace. For instance:

.RS
include "my.hxx";
.br
apple apple;
.br

namespace http://www.example.com/xmlns/my
.br
{
.br
  orange "const orange_t*";
.br
}
.br
.RE


The compiler has a number of predefined mapping rules that can be
presented as the following map files. The string-based XML Schema
built-in types are mapped to either
.B std::string
or
.B std::wstring
depending on the character type selected with the
.B --char-type
option
.RB ( char
by default).

.RS
namespace http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema
.br
{
.br
  boolean bool bool;
.br

  byte "signed char" "signed char";
.br
  unsignedByte "unsigned char" "unsigned char";
.br

  short short short;
.br
  unsignedShort "unsigned short" "unsigned short";
.br

  int int int;
.br
  unsignedInt "unsigned int" "unsigned int";
.br

  long "long long" "long long";
.br
  unsignedLong "unsigned long long" "unsigned long long";
.br

  integer "long long" "long long";
.br

  negativeInteger "long long" "long long";
.br
  nonPositiveInteger "long long" "long long";
.br

  positiveInteger "unsigned long long" "unsigned long long";
.br
  nonNegativeInteger "unsigned long long" "unsigned long long";
.br

  float float float;
.br
  double double double;
.br
  decimal double double;
.br

  string std::string;
.br
  normalizedString std::string;
.br
  token std::string;
.br
  Name std::string;
.br
  NMTOKEN std::string;
.br
  NCName std::string;
.br
  ID std::string;
.br
  IDREF std::string;
.br
  language std::string;
.br
  anyURI std::string;
.br

  NMTOKENS xml_schema::string_sequence;
.br
  IDREFS xml_schema::string_sequence;
.br

  QName xml_schema::qname;
.br

  base64Binary std::auto_ptr<xml_schema::buffer>
.br
               std::auto_ptr<xml_schema::buffer>;
.br
  hexBinary std::auto_ptr<xml_schema::buffer>
.br
            std::auto_ptr<xml_schema::buffer>;
.br

  date xml_schema::date;
.br
  dateTime xml_schema::date_time;
.br
  duration xml_schema::duration;
.br
  gDay xml_schema::gday;
.br
  gMonth xml_schema::gmonth;
.br
  gMonthDay xml_schema::gmonth_day;
.br
  gYear xml_schema::gyear;
.br
  gYearMonth xml_schema::gyear_month;
.br
  time xml_schema::time;
.br
}
.br
.RE


The last predefined rule maps anything that wasn't mapped by previous
rules to
.BR void :

.RS
namespace .*
.br
{
.br
  .* void void;
.br
}
.br
.RE

When you provide your own type maps with the
.B --type-map
option, they are evaluated first. This allows you to selectively override
predefined rules.

.\"
.\" REGEX AND SHELL QUOTING
.\"
.SH REGEX AND SHELL QUOTING
When entering a regular expression argument in the shell command line
it is often necessary to use quoting (enclosing the argument in " "
or ' ') in order to prevent the shell from interpreting certain
characters, for example, spaces as argument separators and $ as
variable expansions.

Unfortunately it is hard to achieve this in a manner that is portable
across POSIX shells, such as those found on GNU/Linux and UNIX, and
Windows shell. For example, if you use " " for quoting you will get
a wrong result with POSIX shells if your expression contains $. The
standard way of dealing with this on POSIX systems is to use ' '
instead. Unfortunately, Windows shell does not remove ' '  from
arguments when they are passed to applications. As a result you may
have to use ' ' for POSIX and " " for Windows ($ is not treated as
a special character on Windows).

Alternatively, you can save regular expression options into a file,
one option per line, and use this file with the
.B --options-file
option. With this approach you don't need to worry about shell quoting.

.\"
.\" DIAGNOSTICS
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the input file is not a valid W3C XML Schema definition,
.B xsd
will issue diagnostic messages to
.B STDERR
and exit with non-zero exit code.
.SH BUGS
Send bug reports to the xsd-users@codesynthesis.com mailing list.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2005-2014 Code Synthesis Tools CC.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
version 1.2; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and
no Back-Cover Texts. Copy of the license can be obtained from
http://codesynthesis.com/licenses/fdl-1.2.txt
