<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>XSD 4.1.0 Compiler Command Line Manual</title>

  <meta name="copyright" content="&copy; 2005-2014 Code Synthesis Tools CC"/>
  <meta name="keywords" content="xsd,xml,schema,c++,mapping,data,binding,code,generator,manual,man,page"/>
  <meta name="description" content="XSD Compiler Command Line Manual"/>

  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="default.css" />

<style type="text/css">

  #synopsis {
    list-style-type:  none;
  }

  #synopsis li {
    padding-top      : 0.0em;
    padding-bottom   : 0.0em;
  }

  #commands dt {
    padding-top      : 0.4em;
  }

  #commands dd {
    padding-bottom   : 0.4em;
    padding-left     : 2em;
  }

  .options {
    margin: 1em 0 1em 0;
  }

  .options dt {
    margin: 1em 0 0 0;
  }

  .options dd {
    margin: .1em 0 0 4.5em;
  }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<div id="container">
  <div id="content">

  <h1>NAME</h1>

  <p>xsd - W3C XML Schema to C++ Compiler</p>

  <h1>SYNOPSIS</h1>

  <dl id="synopsis">
    <dt><code><b>xsd</b> <i>command</i> [<i>options</i>] <i>file</i> [<i>file</i> ...]</code></dt>
    <dt><code><b>xsd help</b> [<i>command</i>]</code></dt>
    <dt><code><b>xsd version</b></code></dt>
  </dl>

  <h1>DESCRIPTION</h1>

  <p><code><b>xsd</b></code> generates vocabulary-specific, statically-typed
  C++ mapping from W3C XML Schema definitions. Particular mapping to
  produce is selected by a <code><i>command</i></code>. Each mapping has
  a number of mapping-specific <code><i>options</i></code> that should
  appear, if any, after the <code><i>command</i></code>. Input files should
  be W3C XML Schema definitions. The exact set of the generated files depends
  on the selected mapping and options.</p>

  <h1>COMMANDS</h1>

  <dl id="commands">
    <dt><code><b>cxx-tree</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Generate the C++/Tree mapping. For each input file in the form
        <code><b>name.xsd</b></code> the following C++ files are generated:
        <code><b>name.hxx</b></code> (header file),
        <code><b>name.ixx</b></code> (inline file, generated only if the
          <code><b>--generate-inline</b></code> option is specified),
	<code><b>name.cxx</b></code> (source file), and
        <code><b>name-fwd.hxx</b></code> (forward declaration file, generated
          only if the <code><b>--generate-forward</b></code> option is
          specified).</dd>

    <dt><code><b>cxx-parser</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Generate the C++/Parser mapping. For each input file in the form
        <code><b>name.xsd</b></code> the following C++ files are generated:
        <code><b>name-pskel.hxx</b></code> (parser skeleton header file),
        <code><b>name-pskel.ixx</b></code> (parser skeleton inline file,
          generated only if the <code><b>--generate-inline</b></code>
          option is specified), and
	<code><b>name-pskel.cxx</b></code> (parser skeleton source file).
        If the <code><b>--generate-noop-impl</b></code> or
        <code><b>--generate-print-impl</b></code> option is specified,
        the following additional sample implementation files are generated:
        <code><b>name-pimpl.hxx</b></code> (parser implementation header
        file) and
        <code><b>name-pimpl.cxx</b></code> (parser implementation source
        file). If the <code><b>--generate-test-driver</b></code> option
        is specified, the additional <code><b>name-driver.cxx</b></code>
        test driver file is generated.</dd>

    <dt><code><b>help</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Print usage information and exit. Use
      <p><code><b>xsd help</b> <i>command</i></code></p>
      for command-specific help.
    </dd>

    <dt><code><b>version</b></code></dt>
    <dd>Print version and exit.</dd>
  </dl>

  <h1>OPTIONS</h1>

  <p>Command-specific <code><i>options</i></code>, if any, should appear
  after the corresponding <code><i>command</i></code>.</p>

  <h2>COMMON OPTIONS</h2>
